
#summary FAQ -- No answers yet. Anyone wants to maintain it?

Contribute with your present or past questions

Q: Can I damage my box when trying Alt-F?

Q: I want to experiment Alt-F, but I'm afraid to loose all my disk data -- is it safe?

Q: In the documentation and discussion groups the word "reloaded" appears a lot, what does that means?

Q: I managed to run Alt-F using the "reloaded" method, but when I reboot the box it goes back to the DLink firmware. Why?

Q: I followed the instructions to experiment Alt-F, but after reboot I can't access the web page nor ping the box, and the power led keeps flashing with a eartbeat rhythm -- what's going on?

Q: I followed the instructions to experiment Alt-F, but after reboot the box seems dead. Is anything I can do to know if Alt-F is actually running?

Q: I made some changes using the web pages, but when I try to save settings I receive an error message saying "Error saving settings! No flash space available."

Q: I flashed Alt-F and it worked fine, but after clearing settings and rebooting I can't access the web page nor ping the box. What's going on?

Q: I forgot my web administration password -- what can I do?

Q: What password should I supply when telneting the box?

Q: How can I poweroff the box without using the web pages?

Q: I wanted to reset the box, so I pressed the box back button, but the amber leds start flashing, why?

Q: The Hard drive spindown does not seems to work

Q: When hitting the StandByNow button in the Disk Utilities web page, the disk spins down but after a few seconds it spins up again

Q: Is the DNS-320/321/343/xxx supported?